It's not easy raising kids in the truth, and I had 10.
I learned the truth when I was 19.
Some witnesses came to preach in our town, and my father offered them a place to stay.
He spoke with them all through the night, and then announced excitedly that he had found
the truth.
Eventually, I was baptized in the 1950s.
My husband was favorable towards the truth, but got involved in political affairs in the
community, and from there, he began his political career.
When I read 1 Peter 3.1 and 2, I understood that I needed to be in subjection to my husband,
with the hope that he could be won over without a word by means of my conduct.
When my children were young, I made a weekly Bible study program for each of them, and
as they grew up, the older kids helped me with their younger siblings.
I remember mom always made an effort to teach me how to preach.
I would write presentations for the ministry on pieces of paper, and the kids would practice
while they did their chores around the house.
We set aside time one day a week for our family study.
It could be anything, a sack of potatoes, a sack of flour, or a house plant.
You would tell me, imagine that this is a person you meet and feel service.
What would you say to them?
When I finished, she would say to me, the way you did it just now, do it like that when
you go out in the ministry.
My mom was very creative.
She would assign us to play the part of different Bible characters.
My mom taught us to appreciate the truth, through her example.
I served as a regular pioneer for many years, and I encouraged my kids to reach out for
spiritual goals.
My daughter left home at the age of 18 to serve as a special pioneer.
Later my oldest son did the same.
These two proved to be excellent examples for their younger brothers.
Raising my son, Noa, was a challenge.
He was the youngest and at a very young age, he was diagnosed with epilepsy.
Despite his limitations, he was able to serve as a ministerial servant and regular pioneer.
He fought his illness for more than 40 years, before passing away recently.
Losing my husband and death dealt me another blow.
Now, my health and my memory are fading.
I can't do as much in the ministry as before, but even so, thanks to the help of the brothers
in the congregation, I'm not giving up.
Even though my husband was not a witness, I respected him as the head of the family.
I will never forget the moment when my husband asked me to study the Bible with him.
I remember that my eldest son gave the talk, and his father was among the candidates for
baptism.
Forty-two years after I received the Kingdom message, my husband was baptized.
Another great blessing was seeing my children grow in the truth, and use their youth to
serve Jehovah.
Some have served as special pioneers, circuit overseers, or imbethal.
If it wasn't for her help and the support of my siblings, perhaps we wouldn't be part
of the organization today.
But thanks to her, we started out on the best course in life, where it's cannot express
how grateful I am to her.
I now find great joy in seeing my grandchildren and great-grandchildren follow their parents
example.
Thinking about all I have experienced in over 60 years of service to Jehovah, raising
my 10 children in the truth, my husband becoming a servant of Jehovah, and seeing 30 members
of my family and full-time service.
I can do nothing but thank Jehovah for his blessings.
It's been worth all the effort.